Some example questions;


1) What attenuation figure should be used when planning LoRaWAN RF coverage of a proposed gateway, where the End-device will be installed into an enclosed meter pit / boundary box with a metal lid?
 - Answer: in dB when compared to a standard outdoor measurement at 1.5m above ground level.
  -Example: 22dB (+/- 5dB).
2) Above for plastic lid.
3) Considering the above answers, and an installation margin of 10dB and a slow-fading margin of 6dB,  what is the expected gateway geographical serving area for this type of end-device in a typical flat, urban area where the gateway antenna is 6dBi gain mounted at 9m above ground level?
4) Above for SF12 and SF9?
5) In the case of above with SF9, what is the optimal inter-site distance for a network where each end-device with be served with a macro-diversity and redundency of minimum 2 gateways?
6) Is it possible to determin by how much a gateway geographical servicing are is changed by implementing physical modifications to the End-device installation, Ie change from metal lids to plastic lids, or fitting external antennas?
7) What do meter vendors recommend? how do they expect performance to be affected by placing the end device in a boundary box / pit with respect to antenna de-tuning and other near-field effects?
8)
9)




Questions for End-device vendors;

For the end-device to operate for the planned life-cycle;
1) What is the EIRP of the device in normal operation as measured by a lab/radiated emmision test?
2) What is the near-field clearance area around the device in which no obstruction should exist in the installation which could effect the antenna performance?
3) What is the maximum spreading factor and number of repititions to be used in normal operation?
4) What is the maximum payload size and number of UL packets per day in normal operation?
5) What is the number of DL packets that the device can recieve and process per day?
6) Is fuota used in the device and if so, how oftern can it be used?
7) Describe the join process and back-off cycle for failed join attempts including the spreading factors and power levels used during join.












